---
layout: default
published: true
title: Installing Redmine and Rails3  
---

Clone Toshi MARUYAMA's Redmine repo https://github.com/marutosi/redmine.git

Try to run redmine application:

bc.    ./script/rails server

If you see the following error:

bc.    config/boot.rb:1:in `require': no such file to load -- rubygems (LoadError)

install ruby1.9.1, delete any previous version.

bc.    sudo apt-get install ruby1.9.1
    sudo apt-get remove ruby1.8

try again

bc.    ./script/rails server

If you see the following error:

bc.    config/boot.rb:14:in `rescue in <top (required)>': uninitialized constant        Object::Bundler (NameError)

You should install bundler

bc.   sudo gem install bundler

Now you'll end up with following error:

bc.    Could not find gem 'rails (= 3.2.1) ruby' in any of the gem sources listed in your Gemfile.
    Try running `bundle install`.

Do like they said:

bc.    bundle install

Now you have this error:

bc.    Installing json (1.6.5) with native extensions 
    Gem::Installer::ExtensionBuildError: ERROR: Failed to build gem native extension.
/usr/bin/ruby1.9.1 extconf.rb 
<internal:lib/rubygems/custom_require>:29:in `require': no such file to load -- mkmf (LoadError)
	from <internal:lib/rubygems/custom_require>:29:in `require'
	from extconf.rb:1:in `<main>'

Ok, gem was trying to build a native extension and failed. This is because ruby1.9.1-dev is not installed. Try now

bc.    sudo apt-get install ruby1.9.1-dev

And again

bc.    bundle install

Now we have another error:

bc. Installing mysql (2.8.1) with native extensions 
Gem::Installer::ExtensionBuildError: ERROR: Failed to build gem native extension.

This is fixable by installing sudo libmysqlclient-dev:

bc.    sudo apt-get install libmysqlclient-dev


And again!

bc.    bundle install

Error again:

bc.    Installing pg (0.9.0) with native extensions 
    Gem::Installer::ExtensionBuildError: ERROR: Failed to build gem native extension.


We are losing patience now. Fix by installing  libpq-dev

bc.    sudo apt-get install libpq-dev

At last!


bc.    Your bundle is complete! Use `bundle show [gemname]` to see where a bundled gem is installed.

Try running again:

bc.    ./script/rails server

Complains about missing config/database.yml

Setup your database

bc.     cp config/database.yml.example config/database.yml

My file looks like this:

bc.    production:
      adapter: sqlite3
      database: db/redmine.sqlite3

Run server:

bc.     ./script/rails server

Now server runs but opening redmine in browser shows Could not find table 'settings'
This is because we didn't initialize our database yet.

Initialize the database:

bc.    rake db:migrate

Now when we start again

bc.     ./script/rails server

we'll see redmine index page.

Login with admin/admin and you're done.
